
David Shively Zook 1793-1851

Source: Zug-Zuck-Zouck-Zook Genealogy-2nd Edition revised, by Harry D. Zook, page 561
David Zook married Nancy Mack, granddaughter of Alexander Mack, Jr, a founder of the German Baptist Brethren Church. The couple and their first five childrn moved in the summer of 1824 to Pike Township, Knox County, Ohio, where they bought a 160-acre farm from John and Susannah Brown for $125. The 1840 census lists a female child under age five, who was absent from the family in 1850. On 15 May 1845, the farm was sold to Jonathan Smith for $1000, and the family moved to Concord Township, Elkhart County, Indiana. Here David served as Justice of the Peace, and was once the nominee of the Whig Party for state Legislature.
David and son Jacob joined the forty-niners on their trek to the gold fields of California. Neither lived to return to Indiana; David died in 1851.
-----------
Source: Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of Elkhart and St. Joseph Counties, Indiana, 1893, page 716
David Zook and family made their home in Pennsylvania until 1840, then came as far west as Richland county, Ohio, and there, for a few years, followed the life of a pioneer tiller of the soil. Elkhart county, Ind., became their home in 1842, and here they resided on a woodland farm until the discovery of gold in California in 1849, when he made the overland trip to the gold fields, where he remained until his death, two years later. He was a prominent citizen, and for a number of years held the office of justice of the peace. Politically he was an old line Whig, and took an active part in questions of the day, and once the nominee of his party for the State Legislature. He and his wife reared a family as follows: John M., the father of the immediate subject of this sketch; Joseph; Jacob, who died in California; Alexander; David M.; Lydia, who married a Mr. Eisenbiss; Sarah, who married John Scott; Catherine, who married Daniel Leedy, a prominent citizen of Elkhart. The mother of these children, after the death of the father, emigrated with some of her children to Iowa, and there died in 1858. 
